---
title: Eloquent Deep Dive
date: 2024-09-29
tags:
  - laravel
---
# Eloquent Deep Dive
I encountered another unique problem that I've been struggling to find a great solution for. This ties back to the other day when I talked about working with databases you don't maintain or have control over.  

Here is the situation. I have one to one relationship I am trying to define; an `Order` has `Shipping`. In both tables there is an `INVOICE` column that is defined as an `nvarchar(15)`. In the Order table, the `INVOICE` values are front padded with however many extra spaces are needed in order to fill the 15 characters, `'         265039'`. While in the Shipping table, the `INVOICE` values are as you’d expect `'265039'`

Because of this the standard `hasOne` and `belongsTo` relationships will not work. They will create queries that resemble the following. 

```sql
-- Will return no results since Shipping INVOICE does not have the padding
SELECT
  *
FROM
  [SHIPPING]
WHERE
  [SHIPPING].[INVOICE] = '          12345';

-- Will also return no results since Order INVOICE values have paddded
SELECT
  *
FROM
  [ORDERS]
WHERE
  [ORDERS].[INVOICE] = '12345'
```


This led me to taking a deep dive into how Eloquent builds up the queries for these relationships. 
##### My somewhat viable solution
One thing I have been able to do with mild success is on the Shipping and Order models is add an `invoice` attribute that will either pad or trim the Invoice value when it is accessed
```php
// Shipping.php
public function invoice(): Attribute  
{  
    return Attribute::make(  
        get: fn(string $value) => Str::padLeft($value, 15)  
    );
}

// Order.php
public function invoice(): Attribute  
{  
    return Attribute::make(  
        get: fn(string $value) => Str::ltrim(Str::rtrim($value))  
    );
}
```

I haven't fully tested or committed to this just yet, just what I am currently exploring. So far this does allow me to call the relationship off of each model.
```php
Order::find($orderId)->shipping;
Shipping::find($shipingId)->order
```

However this does not currently work with eager loading.
```php
Order::find($orderId)->with("shipping");
Shipping::find($shipingId)->with("order")
```